---
author: Trangdai Glassey-Tranguyen
categories: disneyland-forward public-comment
date: 2024-05-21
layout: post
title: Trangdai's Statement
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Anaheim City Council,

During the week of April 15-19, 2024, around three million students in
third to eighth grades in the state of California were taking the
California Assessment test. Besides proctoring the test, teachers still
needed to cover the regular curriculum for that week, so you can imagine
how busy and tired our scholars, teachers, and their parents were.

<!--more-->

As a full-time teacher and a mother of three children, it was an
extremely busy week for me. So the last thing I needed was another
meeting on the Tuesday night of April 16, only the second day in the
testing week. Yet I took the time to come here to express my concerns,
because it was my inalienable right in our American democracy to have my
say in a public matter that will detrimentally impact my family's life.

You are paid with tax dollars to be here, but residents like myself are
not. We carve out time to be here. It was my right and my responsibility
to speak. But did you listen? Here's a visual aid for your edification:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-7kAeWy-a9w" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay;
clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen>
</iframe>

[Play as a Youtube Short](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/-7kAeWy-a9w)

Mayor Aitken and Councilmember Rubalcava, please take a very good look,
because my students were watching your behavior during my comments. Then
they reviewed the clip over and over. Why? Because your behaviors
puzzled them. Their biggest question was: What is the state of Anaheim
democracy? This picture gives a very clear answer!

![Public commentlost to private chat](/assets/2024-05-07-posters/public-comment-lost-to-private-chat-2100x1750.jpg)

As shown in plain view here, you deliberately chose to NOT LISTEN when a
mother poured out her heart about the endless concerns for the safety
and sanity of her young children. Then who are you listening to? The
donors who financed your campaigns so you can vote in their interests
against the public concerns?

As elected officials, when you failed to listen, you ROBBED ME and
fellow residents of our democratic right to voice our concerns and to be
included. You nullified our place in the civic life of this city. Your
disruptive behaviors rendered my efforts and the process of public
hearing pointless. As such, democracy was not upheld in Anaheim city
council's public hearing that night. But it showed that you had
selective hearing because we all witnessed your attentiveness to the
applicant's statement and those that supported the DisneyForward
proposal.

I could never imagine myself having a side chat when one of my students
is speaking - especially when it is THEIR turn and the situation calls
for them to share their thoughts. Your thoughtless and disrespectful
behaviors prove that you do not deserve to serve in public office
because if you are public servants, as you should be, then you at least
should pretend to be doing your job and attend to public concerns.

Your behaviors have shown that the voices of Anaheim's concerned
residents are worthless in this city hall at a very important meeting,
where citizens were forced to wait outside for several hours into the
dark, cold, windy night for a turn to speak. A very bleak picture of
democracy indeed!

Your behaviors showed that the people of Anaheim can not trust you to
make big decisions for us because you failed even in such a small thing
as listening to public comments.

Your behaviors showed that you held yourselves WAY above the law,
because even at such an important council meeting that made headlines
the next day, you didn't even want to pretend that your
constituents'voices were counted. These behaviors fall into the same
pattern of disregard for public concerns in the lightning-speed
DisneyForward approval, even those from thousands of Anaheim residents -
several of whom have lived here all their lives and grew up before Walt
Disney came to town.

My students were watching the meeting and also the video on the private
chat between Mayor Aitken and Councilwoman ​​Rubalcava during my public
comment. They asked me, "Why did they act as if they were at a sidewalk
cafe? Are elected officials supposed to act like this during a public
hearing?"My answer was, "No!"They could never and should never
understand why the mayor and councilwoman had a side conversation and
paid no heed to a public comment, simply because it was a wrongful act.

I would love to hear your explanation for such behaviors, but one of my
students suggested that there should be NO tolerance for such behaviors
in a working democracy. Because in this public civic building, you were
acting LEAST like elected officials. A school-aged student knows much
better. When you do not listen to our voices, our concerns, and our
needs, you should not sit in these chairs up there.

One book that resonated with my dilemma on April 16th is, "All I Really
Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten" by Robert Fulgum. I have
worked with students across age groups from Preschool to college, and I
remember reminding my primary grade students about listening. We first
bring our hands to our ears and say, "Listening ears."Then, we put our
hands over our hearts and say, "Listening heart,"so on and so forth.
Whole-body listening. It is not only a lesson for kindergarteners. It
could be very useful here in this very room, especially during public
hearings.

We should ask, "CAN THE SUBALTERN SPEAK?"at the April 16th meeting, to
use Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak's words. Why was my public statement
ignored and not the applicant's? Was it because I'm just another Asian
woman that you can cast aside? Your behaviors showed me that YOU HAD
SILENCED MY VOICE, right here, in the chamber of the city of Anaheim,
far away from Spivak's specificities of the political, social and
cultural hegemony that silenced women's voices and agencies.

Speaking of silencing voices, it appears that I'm not the only one
being silenced here. If Charles Dickens were here, he would, too! Funny
thing! As colossal and relevant to today's society as he is, Charles
Dickens wouldn't mean A THING to this council. Who cares about the
ghosts of yesterday or today or tomorrow! Just follow the drive of
greed. **Vote NOT with your conscience but with your campaign donor
lists.** It doesn't matter who you will hurt in the vote! Just follow
your checkbook. It's payback time. Let's move Disney forward. It
doesn't matter whose lives your votes will move backward! It doesn't
matter if your vote will turn neighborhoods into the unhappiest place on
earth. But you know, this guy Charles, he knows a few things that we
should care about, like "Hard Times." And maybe the ghost of yesterday
has something very relevant to tell former Anaheim mayor Harry Sidhu
right now!

Your behaviors during public comments showed that the citizens of
Anaheim CANNOT trust your votes on April 16th, 2024 because you DID NOT
listen to the multitude of concerns and suggestions we made. Your mind
was already made up so our voices DID NOT mean anything. If the voices
of Anaheim residents DID NOT mean anything to you, then you should not
be sitting there in those seats to make decisions that impact all of us,
decisions that will have ramifications for not just ourselves but our
children and generations to come.

![Councilmember Rubalcava sanitizing her hands.](/assets/2024-04-16-city-council-photos/reverse-11-558x837.jpg)

Photo caption: *During a concerned resident's public comment,
councilmember Rubalcava was too busy sanitizing her hands, drinking
water, and carrying on an extended side chat. How can you smile in the
face of a resident's cry?*

**I command you to keep Anaheim accountable for ALL citizens by
listening to our voices and integrating them in the decisions YOU get to
make on our behalf. Otherwise, you prove that you are working for
special interests and NOT for the people of Anaheim. A recall is costly
to ALL of us. It takes away public funds that can be put to the right
use for many urgent needs for residents. But when a recall is necessary,
the fund is not only put to the right use. It is the best use.**

**Memorial Day is always an important day for me. As a refugee, I have
the utmost gratitude for the freedom and democracy that allowed me to be
here today, with full awareness of the human costs and complexities in
the U.S. historical trajectories. Countless brave people have forever
laid down their lives for me to be here today. I stand with all the
concerned citizens of Anaheim to make sure that these lives were not
lost in vain. I will make sure that my freedom is NOT taken for granted
or usurped by the city council votes for special interests. As we
celebrate Memorial Day this year, many of us will ensure that democracy
is served here in Anaheim by casting YES at the recall election in
District 3 and demand for a transparent and accountable government right
here in our city.**

Good day to y'all!
