---
author: Trangdai G.-T.
categories: disneyland-forward public-comment
date: 2024-04-16
layout: post
source: "https://www.youtube.com/live/StjC3fPnRGk?t=22234"
title: Live statement on DisneylandForward
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
---

Good evening, Madame Mayor, Esteemed Councilmembers,

I live in the impacted area.

Let's start with the current issues facing residents in the Disneyland
area.

First, TRAFFIC, TRAFFIC, and MORE TRAFFIC! We have to live with traffic
jams on a daily basis, with road closures and detours at the will of
Disneyland events as a bonus.

<!--more-->

People come to Disneyland to have fun, but the local residents bear the
grunt of endless problems: air polution, daily traffic congestion, and
noise pollution. Residents on Walnut St.Â bear a special burden of
trespassers, tree works and munching noise, incessant traffic noise, no
street parking, vandalism, to name just a few.

Within walking and BREATHING proximity of the proposed construction site
are public schools and community facilities that thousands of residents
occupy on a daily basis. The traffic problems will only get worse with a
project of this scale.

These traffic problems affect the daily life of tens of thousands of
people. It is already a bottle neck for parents to drop off their kids
at school in the morning around the Disneyland area. Stoddard Elementary
School, for instance, is ONLY one block away from the proposed
construction site. Down the street on Walnut is Betsy Ross, also with
hundreds of students enrollled. There is also the YMCA Complex where
students spend their after-school hours.

A project like DisneyForward will only further exacerbate the current
problems and harm our health. Take noise pollution. This project will
violate THE LAW OF NOISE PROTECTION IN CALIFORNIA, *Health and Safety
Code 46000.* And I quote:

> (f) All Californians are entitled to a peaceful and quiet environment
>     without the intrusion of noise which may be hazardous to their
>     health or welfare. (g) It is the policy of the state to provide an
>     environment for all Californians.

But how many residents in the impacted zone are not even aware of the
scope of the proposed project and how it will hurt their lives for years
to come? Imagine having construction cranes flying over in the sky as
you come home from school, hearing heavy machinaries moving about all
day long and shaking up your neighborhood. Imagine having to shout every
time you need to talk to your children because the construction zone
drowns out your voice.

When you vote, put yourselves in the place of the residents and answer
these questions:

1.  Am I willing to put my family in harm's way by voting for this
    project without understanding the full costs that come with it?

2.  Is it ethical for me to ruin the childhood of so many children who
    will have to suffer from noise pollution, air pollution, and all
    sorts of disruption to their lives should this project ever happen?

3.  Do I have the right to disregard the voices and concerns of the
    people who are directly impacted by this plan simply because I do
    not live in this zone and will not need to account for the negative
    consequences?

As a mother of three young children, I would like to ask each of you to
imagine yourself having to tell your own children, especially
school-aged children, that as their parents, you had made the WRONG
choice to make a home for them in Anaheim. That because the City decided
to approve this project, you will now be driven out of your home by this
frenzie of noise, dust, and overflowing traffic. If you cannot imagine
yourself doing that, then do not condemn residents like myself into that
wrecking situation.

At the moment in the proposal, there is a blatant absence of
consideration for the right to a peaceful and safe life for impacted
residents. It is imperative that the City of Anaheim inform the public
in clear and truthful ways about all the hidden costs, the inavoidable
risks, and the endless problems that come with the DisneyForward
proposal through communications that are NOT wrapped in convoluted
double talk. Community outreach and public notification should also
reflect the demographics in the area and account for the launguage
plurality of the residents.

But first and foremost, to disregard the human costs from a project of
this scope is unthinkable. There is the noise pollution, the drain on
our local and natural resources, the environmental impacts from having
an intense conglomeration of hotels and resorts in a concentrated area
like Disneyland, and so on and so forth.

Today, I am thinking of all the residents who can't be here. Many
residents are entirely left out for one reason or another. In my diverse
neighborhood, there are retired teachers, young families, expecting
parents, people with chronical conditions, folks with mobility
restrictions, elderly people who are confined to their homes, people
with disabilities, immigrants who do not speak English, etc. How
possible is it for all these residents to carve out the time to be here
to share their concerns? What have you done to ensure that these
residents fathom the scales of changes and disruptions that the proposed
project will impose upon them?

When I attended the informational session last Wednesday, I was told
that the Environmental Study for this proposal was supposed to be a
"public process." But how do you define "public process" when impacted
residents are NOT even considered in the study? Somehow, even though the
project is located within a densely populated area, the human occupants
of that "environment" had no say and no voice in the study? We were
rendered mute. And this is appalling and unacceptable.

For the city of Anaheim to undertake a project of the scope of
Disneyland Forward WITHOUT the considerations for the harm and
repercusions to its own residents is unacceptable, unethical, and
unsustainable.

There is much to be done BEFORE this proposal can be considered. I ask
that the City of Anaheim ensures that every aspect of the proposed
project be vetted and consulted by ALL residents. The City of Anaheim
ought to take serious steps in treating residents as stakeholders and
include all voices in the planning and decision making. The key is to
communicate fully and clearly to the residents, in public announcements
and in local media, the costs of the proposed project, in a language
that is free from technical jargons and accessible to all.

I command you to vote NO on this item until the proper and ethical
public discourses and engagement are carried out. Here are just a few
requirements:

1.  Conduct a comprehensive and INCLUSIVE study on the harms and costs
    that this project will cause local residents;

2.  Provide listening sessions for residents to share their concerns and
    input on the project and whether it is the right thing for Anaheim;

3.  Immediately enable a public forum with transparency and integrity to
    facilitate discussions from residents and concerned citizens;

4.  Provide a clear study of the impacts of the fiscal implications this
    project will impose on the local community - for instance, a project
    of this scale will suck up a large amount of water, which is a
    precious resource in our city, and consequencely will drive the cost
    of water up for all residents.

Taking Magic Way away from the public will cause more bottleneck traffic
on Ball and Katella and the adjacent areas. Cerritos is FOREVER chopped
up. Let us not block off another road from Anaheimers and generations to
come.

This entire week, all third to eighth graders in the state of California
are taking the California Assessment of Student Performance and
Progress. You can imagine how busy and tired our scholars and their
parents are. So I applaud all of our parents who have taken the time to
share their concerns today.

All of my children are testing this week, so the last thing I need is
another meeting on a weeknight. But here I am, because I need to voice
my rights for a peaceful and safe life in my own neighborhood.

**As elected officials, your job is to represent us, the people of
Anaheim. We want to make sure that you do not take lightly our trust,
our votes, and our voices. The American democracy is structured in a way
that enables all voices to be heard.**

Your vote will speak the loudest - whether you are a public servant, or
NOT!

Disneyland claims to be the happiest place on earth. We ask that you do
not vote for Disneyland Forward to turn our neighborhood into the
unhappiest place on earth.

**Thank you!**
