---
author: Julian G.
categories: disneyland-forward public-comment
date: '2024-04-16'
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
layout: post
source: https://records.anaheim.net/CityClerk/DocView.aspx?id=5181570
title: Kennedy Commission Comments to Agenda Item 14
---

Good Afternoon,

My name is Julian Sebastian Gutierrez, a Policy Analyst with the Kennedy
Commission. Below will be our comments, concerns, and suggestions
regarding Agenda Item 14 regarding the Disney Forward project.

<!--more-->

Thank you,

 Julian Sebastian Gutierrez

April 16,2024

Mayor Aitkens and City Councilmembers

City of Anaheim

200 S.Anaheim Blvd

Anaheim,CA 92805

**Re:Comments to Action Item 14 on Anaheim's discussion of establishing
a Local Housing Trust Fund**

Dear Honorable Mayor Aitkens and Members of the Anaheim City Council

The Kennedy Commission (the Commission)is a broad coalition of residents
and community organizations that advocates for the production of homes
affordable for families earning less than \$30,000 annually in Orange
County.Formed in 2001,the Commission has been successful in partnering
and working with jurisdictions in Orange County to create effective
policies that have led to the production of new homes affordable to low
income working families.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the city's discussion on The
Disneyland expansion plan under Disney Forward.

The Kennedy Commission strongly disapproves of the Disneyland Park
expansion.The relationship between The Walt Disney Company and Anaheim
has been largely one-sided,where the City contributes millions of
dollars in investment and land while receiving nearly nothing in
return.According to a 2017 report,despite contributing \$108.2 million
to build a parking garage that has been generating more than \$35
million in annual revenue,Disney is charged only a dollar a year for the
lease of the parking garage.In 1997,Anaheim took on \$510 million in
debt for improvements to the Resort District that despite receiving a
surplus ranging in the hundreds of millions,Anaheim can only use the
surplus to pay off the debt instead of the funds going to the General
Fund.

Disney has taken in significant subsidies and tax breaks from the City
and has given little in return to either the City or the residents of
Anaheim.Although Disney has promised \$30 million in affordable housing
and \$8 million for park and nearby road improvements,it is important to
remember that those investments are minor when compared to what the city
could earn annually from a gate tax imposed on the park.Additionally it
is important to remember that despite there being no budget impact,such
improvements would make a significant difference on the ability for
Anaheim's low and very low income residents to afford to live
comfortably in the City through the significant increase in
cost,traffic,and noise/air pollution that will be brought by the
Disneyland expansion.While Disney asserts that it has created jobs that
support Anaheim's residents,a good portion of those employees are
underpaid and overworked.The assertion that Anaheim needs Disneyland is
an unfair assumption by the over-confident conglomerate.Instead of
permitting Disneyland to expand their park,the city should evaluate the
long-term effects a 2%gate tax could have on The City.What benefits
would a park expansion be for Anaheim's low and very low income
residents if they cannot even afford to attend the park,enjoy its
amenities, or worse lose their homes because of the increased housing
costs?

The Commission opposed the park expansion and believes that greater
evaluation is necessary on Disney's economic contribution to the City
and how Anaheim has used those funds to support Anaheim's low and very
low income residents and their ability to comfortably live in the City.
Additionally, we support the imposition of a 2% gate tax on Disneyland
Park as a means to increase the available budget funds that could be
invested in housing,community services,and infrastructure on a long-term
basis.

Thank you for your consideration of these concerns. We look forward to
further conversation regarding this important matter

Very truly yours,

 Cesar Covarrubias

 Executive Director
