---
author: Leslie A.
categories: DisneylandForward
date: 2024-04-23
layout: post
source: "https://records.anaheim.net/CityClerk/DocView.aspx?id=5204074"
title: Analysis of Disneyland as my Neighbor
---

I am writing to you as a response to the Disneyland forward project. As
a concerned resident of Anaheim. Regarding the proposed
DisneylandForward Project, I already am stressed over the trouble that
comes with Disney being our neighbor. The negative impacts that this
project would have on our community at the speed with which my city
officials continue to be perpetrators is moving forward to adopt this
project without proper community engagement.

Again, emphasis on the council members. The irony of Disney's targeted
audience being children. Their foundational campaigns marketing love and
light. As a corporation it is a terrible inconsiderate entity. It has
taken its space in history due to the lack of disclosure. Neighbors like
myself, are trying to use full rights of our voice. We are more involved
than ever. We are present.

The expansion of the Disneyland Resort, as outlined in the
DisneylandForward proposal, raises significant concerns about community
displacement, traffic congestion, and strain on our public resources.
Emphasizing TRAFFIC, and its known, studied symptom being POLLUTION.

A CONSIDERATE INTERACTIVE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CITY ADMIN AND ITS
RESIDENTS IS: postpone the vote and ensure a detailed, open process that
carefully considers the Project's impact; encourages discussions between
city officials, Disney, and the community members; and ensures that the
community benefits associated with the project truly meet the proposed
benefits are in line with the community's needs for greater affordable
housing investments.

I look forward to your thoughtful consideration and action on behalf of
our city.

With intention for wellness,

 Leslie A.

 Anaheim, California 92806
