---
author: Adriana P.-R.
categories: disneyland-forward public-comment
date: 2024-04-22
layout: post
source: "https://records.anaheim.net/CityClerk/DocView.aspx?id=5204070"
title: Disneyland Forward
---

My name is Adriana P.-R. and I spoke last week at the City Council
Meeting regarding Disneyland Forward; I spoke at the meeting and made my
feelings very clear.about how I felt about the project, so we do not
need to rehash this issue. You are welcome to view my participation at
minute 5 with 14 seconds for your viewing pleasure and to think long and
hard about this project which we categorically reject.

What I want to address here is the egregious contempt and disrespect
shown to the residents, homeowners, tax payers and PEOPLE of Anaheim.
The Council kept the people of Anaheim outside of the public City of
Anaheim building. They did not ensure that we all had seats, and that we
were protected from the elements. The City of Anaheim, and the Council,
did not ensure ADA adherence in support of the elderly and the disabled.
That is just for starters.

But was most violatory of all of our rights and freedoms as the people
of Anaheim, is that you offensively and disrespectfully PACKED THE HOUSE
with pro-Disneyland Forward advocates, who were NOT residents of Anaheim
and who had a vested interest; that is, they were not impacted directly,
unlike me, by this behemoth that you are contemplating. The pro
Disneyland Forward people were hotel owners, restaurant owners,
employees of Disneyland, Electrical and Construction industry union
members, and a variety of other characters who had nefarious and corrupt
interest in this project.

I demand that another meeting regarding this issue take place, wherein
you show us the proper respect and prove to us that you are indeed
PUBLIC SERVANTS, who are here to serve, pardon the redundancy, the
PUBLIC. And prove, unlike what you showed in last week's council
meeting, that you are not, in fact, corrupt employees of Disneyland, who
respond, not to the PEOPLE of Anaheim, but rather, act as the servants,
indentured servants, or corrupt and dirty politicians, who are at the
beck and call, of a multi billion dollar conglomerate; Disneyland.

Further, the woman who represents our District, District 4, whose name I
would rather forget, walked out during various interventions, showing
disrespect, contempt and vomit-inducing arrogance, She does **NOT**
represent our district; that is, she does not represent our people, our
neighborhood, our values, or our interests. Hopefully, she will be gone
when we next vote. Unless she uses the dirty campaign money that she
purportedly received from Disneyland, through their "greasing of the
palm" PAC, thereby proving the disgusting corruption and greed which she
has been a party to.

YOU WILL NOT DISPLACE US.
